1.30.0 release blogpost (#889)
FusionAuth/fusionauth-site: site/_posts/2021-08-18-annnoucing-fusionauth-1.30.md

description: The FusionAuth 1.30.0 releases a robust suite of Advanced Threat Detection features, a JWT vending machine, myriad webhook events, and more.
author: Akira Brand
image: blogs/release-1-30/product-update-fusionauth-1.30.png
category: blog
tags: topic-troubleshooting
excerpt_separator: "<!--more-->"
---

We're excited to announce the release of version 1.30.0 of FusionAuth. This version shipped on August 12, 2021. 1.30.0 includes a robust Advanced Threat Detection feature, adds 38 webhook events, resolves issues for FusionAuth community members and customers, and more! 

<!--more-->

This release contained a number of features, enhancements, and bug fixes. Please see the [release notes](/docs/v1/tech/release-notes/#version-1-30-0) for a full breakdown of the changes between 1.29 and 1.30.0. 

There are a few items worth calling out.

## JWT Vending Machine

There are scenarios where a user does not yet exist, or is in the process of being created and needs access to services. This may be an anonymous user, or a future user. In these cases we cannot yet authenticate to FusionAuth because the user does not yet exist, or they may not yet have a password.

> To solve this, we have created the possiblity of opening an API that allows a JWT to be created with a payload defined by the API called.  This would require an API key, so the caller must be privledged.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To address this, the new release includes an API allowing a JWT to be created without a corresponding user. 
```

> Here is an example of the endpoint at work: 

Reviewer: I found this example confusing and not really clear. Maybe offer a sample curl script with the input (which you provide) and the output. Or you could omit the curl script and just say something like "when you call the endpoint with the below input: <show input>, you'll get back a signed JWT, which, when decoded and validated, will look like the below output: <show output>"

Endpoint: /api/jwt

```

{
  "claims": {
     "roles": [ "awesome" ],
     "id": 42
   }
}
```

> Using this ability, a new user on your app can start interacting with the app as a unique user, before needing to create an account. Then, once they do create an account, their unique Id is translated onto their profile. 

Reviewer 2: With this feature, an anonymous app visitor can interact with your platform and subsequently create an account and have all those interactions recorded (if desired).  

A common use case might be a visitor and a shopping cart.  You would not want to lose precious user browsing data while the user was evaluating your site.  Once they commit to a purchase and register, likely you will want to preserve portions of their initial visit to generate future revenue.

> Using this ability, a new user on your app can start interacting with the app as a unique user, before needing to create an account. Then, once they do create an account, their unique Id is translated onto their profile. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using this ability, a new user on your app can start interacting with the app as a unique user, before needing to create an account. Then, once they do create an account, the unique Id can be used to ensure any saved profile data is retained. 
```

This isn't something automatic, right? They need to do this themselves by creating a user with the given subject Id?

Author: checking now

## Threat Detection Feature

> 

Reviewer: Please mention that this is a paid feature, available to enterprise clients only. You could also mention that turning this on requires opening a support ticket, as we're rolling this out over time.

Reviewer: Or you could mention this at the end of this section too. See https://fusionauth.io/blog/2021/05/21/announcing-fusionauth-1-27/ for an example. ("This is a reactor feature, requiring a paid license")

> Flagging and responding to suspicious behaviour is a huge advantage in any cybersecurity product, and we wanted to bring our customers as many advantages as we could in this arena. So, we created a large feature that has best-practice funtionality built in to deal with any sort of bizarre behaviours around user creation, user updates, and IP location and fingerprinting. 

Reviewer 2: Preference: 
Flagging and responding to suspicious behavior is a huge advantage in any cybersecurity product, so naturally, we incorporated this functionality into the ever-evolving FusionAuth platform.

Reviewer 2: So, we created a large feature that has best-practice functionality built in to deal with any sort of bizarre behaviors around user creation, user updates, and IP location and fingerprinting.

This sentence seems vague.
_maybe_?
In this release of FusionAuth, we use IP location data, user fingerprinting, and other indicators around user events to signal suspicious behavior.

> Flagging and responding to suspicious behaviour is a huge advantage in any cybersecurity product, and we wanted to bring our customers as many advantages as we could in this arena. So, we created a large feature that has best-practice funtionality built in to deal with any sort of bizarre behaviours around user creation, user updates, and IP location and fingerprinting. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Flagging and responding to suspicious behavior is a part of any cybersecurity product, and we wanted to bring our customers as many advantages as we could in this arena. So, we created advanced threat detection, a feature that brings best-practice functionality to help you deal with bizarre, possibly malicious behavior around logins, registrations, user creation, and user updates.
```

> While the entirety of this feature is too large to cover here, we want to call out a few notable aspects:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While the entirety of this feature is too large to cover here, we want to call out a few notable aspects.
```

Rate limiting per user for specific requests such as:
 - Failed login
 - Forgot password

>  - Send email verification

Reviewer: Would probably pick 3 and say "and more" for the 4th bullet point.

 - Send passwordless
 - Send registration verification
 - Send two-factor
 

> Capcha - Uses additonal (re)captcha to guard against brute force attacks. 

Reviewer: Capcha -> Captcha

Reviewer: I'm not clear on what the difference between captcha and (re)captcha is? Maybe only use the former?

> - Adds a (re)captcha for login pages which use an email/password combination

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Adds a (re)captcha for login pages
```

> - Adds support for Google ReCaptcha v2, Google ReCaptcha v3, HCaptcha and Hcaptcha Enterprise

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Includes support for Google ReCaptcha v2, Google ReCaptcha v3, HCaptcha and Hcaptcha Enterprise
```

> 

Reviewer: Perfect place for a screenshot of the map. People love pictures.

> IP Location Services

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Location aware security
```

maybe? Not sure, but for many folks, the location info will be more important than how we get it.

> - Includes the IP address of the geographic location where a Forgot/Reset Password email was created, so the recipient can identify if the location is genuinely their request or not. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Includes the geographic location where a Forgot/Reset Password email was requested, so the recipient can identify if the location is genuinely their request or not. 
```

I haven't looked at this closely, but isn't it the geographic location, not the IP address, that is included?

Author: also checking

- Flags suspicious IP adddresses on login and sends an email to notify the user of a new login with the IP's approximate location

> - Calculates 'impossible travel' to see if a user could genuinely login in different locations around the globe in a reasonable time frame. (This does not provide support if your user is a quantum being...)

Reviewer 2: user could genuinely login -> user could realistically login

> - Calculates 'impossible travel' to see if a user could genuinely login in different locations around the globe in a reasonable time frame. (This does not provide support if your user is a quantum being...)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Calculates 'impossible travel' to see if a user could genuinely login at different locations around the globe in a reasonable time frame. (This does not provide support if your user is a quantum being...)
```

> - With unexpected IP addresses, sends a user an email to notify them of a new login with an approximate location of the IP address. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- When a login request occurs from an unexpected IP addresses, sends a user an email to notify them of a new login with an approximate location of the IP address. 
```

To learn more, you can take a look at our [release notes](/docs/v1/tech/release-notes/#version-1-30-0). 

## Webhook Events

> We've added 38 webhook events to help you moniter what is going on with your app.  These webhooks cover an entire breadth of createing, updated, and deleting a user, as well as the user registration and password reset lifecycle. Lastly, we've added some webhook events to moniter any kickstart files you may create, as well as moniter JWT behavior with refresh tokens and public/private keypairs are updated. 

Reviewer 2: moniter spelling

Reviewer 2: createing

Reviewer 2: updated

Reviewer 2: If you read this aloud, this sentence does not flow
Lastly, we've added some webhook events to moniter any kickstart files you may create, as well as moniter JWT behavior with refresh tokens and public/private keypairs are updated.

> We've added 38 webhook events to help you moniter what is going on with your app.  These webhooks cover an entire breadth of createing, updated, and deleting a user, as well as the user registration and password reset lifecycle. Lastly, we've added some webhook events to moniter any kickstart files you may create, as well as moniter JWT behavior with refresh tokens and public/private keypairs are updated. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We've added 38 webhook events to help you monitor what is going on with your app and integrate with other systems.  These webhooks cover the entire breadth of creating, updated, and deleting a user, as well as the user registration and password reset lifecycle. 

Lastly, we've added some webhook events to moniter any kickstart files you may create, as well as moniter JWT behavior with refresh tokens and public/private keypairs are updated. 
```

monitor is used a lot, is there another word you can use?

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We're working on the documentation for these webhooks, which will be available at <link> shortly.

```

## The rest of it

> Some of the other enhancements and fixes included in this release:

Reviewer: If these are sentences (and it seems they are) please capitalize the first letter and add a period at the end.

Reviewer: If they aren't, capitalize the first letter and no period.

Reviewer: But have it be consistent.

> * search on `oldValue`, `newValue`, and `reason` in the Audit Log

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Search on `oldValue`, `newValue`, and `reason` in the Audit Log
```

> * More themed pages have access to the currently logged in user using the `currentUser` varible

Reviewer 2: varible

> * More themed pages have access to the currently logged in user using the `currentUser` varible

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* More themed pages have access to the currently logged in user with the `currentUser` variable.
```

> * Using an IdP with a linking mode other than Create Pending Link, the token is now stored correctly in the Identity Provider Link

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* When an IdP has a linking mode other than Create Pending Link, the token is now stored correctly in the Identity Provider Link object.
```

> * Making an API request to `/api/two-factor/login` with an empty JSON body, an exception now occurs instead of returning a validation error with a `400` status code. 

Reviewer: I think you want to indicate that this has been fixed :)

## Upgrade at will

The [release notes](/docs/v1/tech/release-notes/#version-1-30-0) are a guide of the changes, fixes, and new features. Please read them carefully to see if any features you use have been modified.

If you'd like to upgrade your self-hosted FusionAuth instance, see our [upgrade guide](/docs/v1/tech/installation-guide/upgrade/). 

If you have a FusionAuth Cloud deployment, proceed to the "Deployments" tab on your [account dashboard](https://account.fusionauth.io/account/deployment/){:target="_blank"} and upgrade your servers. If you have any questions about the upgrade, [please open a support ticket](https://account.fusionauth.io/account/support/){:target="_blank"}.

> Or, if we've piqued your interest and you'd like to use FusionAuth, [check out your options](/pricing/).

Reviewer 2: I am not sure why this link looks strange to me 
[check out your options](/pricing/).

could be fine...
